# Stevens Response 
Brody Mack 

1. In the readings for Tuesday and today, the authors use a technique to produce a high resolution description of the distribution of human populations across the globe. What is the name of the technique and describe in general and basic terms how it works.

1a. It is called the “random forest” non parametric model  which is combined with ancillary data or alternatively statistical modeling methods which are used to estimate population density and population distributions.  

2. The  random forest method  used by the authors  is a machine learning algorithm. In general terms what is a machine learning algorithm? Within the context of this study what distinguishes a data science, machine  learning  method from previous statistical approaches to describing and analyzing phenomenon and events. 

2a. A Machine learning algorithm is when computer systems use statistical models to perform a specific task without using explicit instructions. It relies on patterns and inference instead.The use of remotely sensed data is especially important for mapping human population in countries that do not have reliable census data collection


3. In the reading the authors use a number of geospatial covariates as predictors in  their machine learning method. What were these spatial covariates and approximately how big of a data set did they represent? What is the significance of big data in the estimation of machine learning methods for inferring the correlates and drivers of human population distributions?

3a. These covariate boundaries are areas of countries the census data is unreliable so the Random Forest algorithm calculates and makes predictions of these covariate boundaries. The significance of big data in the estimation of machine learning methods  for inferring the correlates and drivers of human population distributions is to understand where in the world populations are growing at a high rate and to understand where humans are going to live so one place does not become overpopulated.  

4. The authors’ results present a remarkable improvement over previous geospatial descriptions at very high resolution, of the distribution of the human population. Within the context of human development in LMIC’s, what is the significance of having a highly accurate description of where each person is  located across planet earth. 
 
4a. It allows governments around the world to understand exactly where people are living and create governmental boundaries around these LMIC’s to help them with certain needs they might have. Also to provide aid, insurance, sufficient buildings, work opportunities and other things. Also it helps data scientists understand where exactly people are living, why they are living there, and also how they are living there. 

5. Within the context of human development in LMICs, what is the relevance to your area of investigation in having a highly accurate description of where each household and person is located across planet Earth. 

5a. In Papua, New Guinea, the population  is very centered into specific areas where governmental assistance is needed. WIthout the proper assistance they are lacking certain things such as schools and insurance for basic needs such as basic hygiene, sufficient buildings to live in, and also jobs to help give them opportunities. 
